Notes on Book: Surely you're joking, Mr. Feynman

Already as a young child, Feynman realized many of the things it took me 25 or 30 years to realize about life. Especially as a kid, but to a degree maybe until I was close to 30, I believed that when people spoke, they did so to convey a truth about the world. Even when they said obviously false things, it was to me because they were simply mistaken about something.

Feynman has a very interesting way of dealing with bureaucracy as well. He is always keen on turning his interactions with others into a game - at least in the stories he shares in the book. I find that this is a very effective way of dealing with the world. When I was younger however, I was convinced that the systems put in place by others and those before me were put in place with the best intentions in mind. People had existed for so long, I believed, they must have figured out how to best regulate a society and I was thus skeptical of behaviour that undermined these systems. Feynman realized that this was not the case.

One can of course question a great deal of his behaviour and throughout the book, I could not help but wonder how much of it was simply accepted by others because Feynman was a genius. In this case, one cannot take his behaviour as an example on how to live one's own life.

The last essay of the book on Cargo Cult Science struck me as very illuminating. I had read the book before, but reading it a second time I felt that the essay was very honest and that Feynman gave a good analysis of many things that are wrong in this world. I also thought it was interesting that he talked about two 'kinds' of honesty - one scientific kind of honesty ("bending over backwards" as he calls it) and one everyday kind of honesty that he casually equates to not telling lies. When I was younger I used to think that only the scientific kind of honesty could be considered honesty but I understand this subtle difficulty much better know. I was wondering whether everybody realizes that this distinction exists or if people with a background in science are much more aware of it.
